Actual coaching transcript:

I walk. There we go. Okay. can set up at break. I didn't shift. Yeah. No shift without spines and fifth. Yeah. But good line. Yeah. good approach and good line. I can just do fourth, I think, not even break that much. Yeah, if you're not going to shift, then maybe when you want to do the shift is. Right here, do it downshift? Yeah. Right there. Pop it in and then just scoot out. Because you're already focused on the break zone. You've already got the good breakrakes in. You got the good line in. You're hitting the marks. So now that you're you've got a little bit more mental capacity, you can go, okay, let's go down a gear and scoot up and get out of there. Get out of there.' Because it's bugging. And you want fourth gear through this section You anyway.s better. Good hustle to get over. Yep. The thing is, is when you're in a higher gear, the car is less wanting to move, right? Because like how the rear drive line is, like the higher the gear you are, the more it's sluggish to move over. Right. It's kind of put like there's more load on it. Yeah... It's kind of a bummer that this is the fastest lap, but it was the lug lap that was testing lugging. Yeah. But, like, that just goes to show you power. I went from fifth to third there. Yeah. Yeah. But it just goes to show you like how important hitting your marks are and how important like like getting the throttle application right and the brake application right. Like, you can be in the lowest, you know, the highest gear, fifth gear, and lug it around the track and still be fast just by doing those things, like practicing the right things. It's like what I usually tell people is like when you're on a cool down lap, when you're on behind traffic or whatever, don't relax your lines, do their same lines, because then it becomes a known learned thing that you're constantly doing. Yeah, so on the cool down laps, I'll do the line, even though we're doing really slow. Yeah. Like drive out to those places. Right, you know. So here, if we go back, interestingly, I went from fifth to third into turn four, which I was doing in turn two. So I still had to do it, but I had to do it over. Yeah, but you had a shorter, well, you had a longer distance to get it done. Yeah, that's right. The thing with when you're coming up to the top of two is such a short distance that you have to do, you have to be really comfortable with that eel toe to grab the gears. in order to do it smoothly. Yeah. The other thing is, like, you know, when you have a booster system in the M3, it's pretty feathery to the touch. You're brake pads are saying that theyre pretty feathery to the touch, right? So, like, that application is very important and be more focused on the application and then start to add more things once you're fully comfortable with it. Yeah, okay. And, like, you know, it's it's subtle, but you do see how you're lifting off the brake, you're, like, pulling it out, you know, you're starting to get comfortable with, I'm trying, you know I'm like really trying to modulate it. modulate and pull. And like, you know, the car is now turned. Great. We're getting down to the apex. Right. Right. We're rolling good throttling. What I want to see is a little bit more commitment to that throttle. Oh, I was I'm too scared. Yeah. But, like, watch. When you go out, you still have room. That curbing is more room for you to use. It's scary. I mean, here's the thing. When I go out there, the first time I went out there, I just went out with DSC off. Yeah. It wiggled all around. Yeah, it will. Like, it also catches the car. The serratedated berms, it's also raised, right? And so it's kind of like coming on a camber in the corner, right? It does a further catch you.ka is like this too, where like a lot of the curves are kind of banked in your favor. So when you go hit them, it catches you and stops the momentum of the car continuing. It just says, okay, you sit here now, right? So you can use that to your advantage. Okay. All right. In other words, don't be a woose. I got it. I tried to angle it. No, no, it's good. You're diving in, you're in there. You're maintaining good throttle, and you're focusing on. I can see you're starting to focus on when am I getting back to throttle? You have the, you're holding the average speed with just a little bit to keep the car balanced, right? Which is fine. We want to focus on. See, once you do that stab, is like, why did you only go 60%? I didn't want it to spin out and die. It doesn't make enough power to do that. Okay. So what I want you to do next time is when you start to think about going slamming to 60% throttle, think about going to 100% throttle. Because the, and I'll tell you, the torque difference between 60% throttle and 100% throttle is not much. Not much. We're talking about 20 foot pounds thr. Right. You know? That's not a lot of difference when you're modulating already up to 60%. Okay, right? Okay. Like, the tunes that we have in the ST4 cars, we limit the throttle down to 65% to make the power that we need to.. Right. So think about that. Like we're pretty fast in ST4. Yeah, but we're only using 60% of the fraud.. Right. So like, I think when you tip into a 60% of throttle, just be like, yo, just go. 100. Okay. I was doing that when DSC was on. I just was one of those throttle backs to. And it's good. I mean, you're driving out to where you need to be. You're hitting the marks that you're doing that you need to do. I love it. You're practicing the stuff that we were talking we talked about. That's what I do. The breaking point, they're, See, that I mean, it's just the car slows down so much. Well, right? And I would say that, like, you break the little early, right? Because when I remember what I suggest is a break point should be a route right here. Yeah, yeah. Right? You were early here, which is fine. And then you're slowing down so much, but you're also pulling out of the brake 100% there. Be more like you were trying at four, where you're rolling off the brake, right? It's not it's not a digital pedal. I promise you, I think I'm rolling off. So either I am not modulating it well, or it's just so sensitive, and it's not giving us the whole thing. I really believe I'm rolling up, but maybe I'm not. Maybe it's slowing down so fast. You are rolling off, but you're rolling off. Well, the pressures are saying. So I think this might be the break switch and not.. Here, let's do this. Yeah, so we're This is reading Breake Switch, not brake pressure. Oh. Look, these are your brake pressures, right? Oh, I see. You see? Look, so this should be reading pressure, but it's just. But it's reading it's reading Switch right now. Okay. Because when you look at it, like it goes down to zero, right? There's no modulation there. But when we look at the actual pressure itself, there's a taper on. There is a taper. Right? And we zoom in even more. That's more of what we're looking for. What I would like to see is not the spike here, right? So you get. That's when I'm shifting. Yeah, that's, you know, you, you've got to get that down to have that consistent feel, right? But yeah, I like the taper off here. That's good. That's really good. I like it. Yay. You know, I want to see it curve more like this, you know, like,. And then, because when we talk about these kind of pressures, like this is, you know, half of half of what you were doing on the maximum, right? I want to see it taper more and just hold more light break. Why? Because when we hold more light break as were turning in, as we're asking for the steering, we're getting a little bit of grip on the front axle withholding that brake. We're keeping the nose weight there. Okay. And the tires can handle like multiple inputs, but not too much of either one, right? So I should be going fast when I do that then. I should probably come with better entry speed to be able to use it. Yes, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. And then you just hold lightly and you'll trail in. But you are trailing in. I want to see the trail hold to almost there. Right? Because then that that's, we're going to be coming up to maximum grip, maximum load in the middle of the corner. I want to be off off break there. Got it. Yeah, it makes sense. Right. And like, see how you come to throttle. See how quickly you come to throttle. Yeah. That means that you know there's more speed there. Yes. Like, you can mentally think like, ah, there's more speed here. So when you're focusing on the break and getting down into that corner, I want you to realize like, hey, roll all that speed in how light do I have to be on the break to just keep that that speed rolling in? Okay. Right? Because by the time we get to this point, this is the middle of our corner. Right. Right. And we want to be committed to more throttle at this point. I want to be slamming the throttle over. Slamming it here. I mean, to a degree, depending on what the rear is going to take. But, like, you know, you're half throttle until you're full throttle here, whereas if we could have not done this early throttle here, right, if we didn't do that early throttle here, we would have been able to come into more throttle here. More throttle there. Right? Yep. Okay. So try to build that out. Like when you jump back to throttle, almost immediately, try to build that out. Okay. Especially on corners, like seven and like 11. Okay. I went late this time. I tried to stay out, like you were saying, coming into S's. Yeah, it's good. You're driving to where it needs to go. The car is hitting the marks that you're looking for. What I would say my suggestion, in here will go AA. Nine. Go to nine. I would let the cart. Oh, let's keep going, scrolling back, probably because where I am. Oh. Yeah, it's fine. So I would let the car breathe more in here, and what does that mean? I would open up the wheel and use a little bit more space. Coming coming out of nine.. use a little bit more space. Why? Because when we come up to 10, we don't want to be having the angle in the car like this as we're approaching the curb. Because then we immediately have to go and do this.. If we open up nine a little bit, we can get a straight shot into 10. And that means that when we approach 10, we're not going from less searing to right steering angle. straight going straight to right. Yeah, okay. Right? Yeah, that makes sense. Yeah. Because, like, you've got a little bit of angle in the steering still, and then I do. And then you can see it. I can see it. Just slightly, yeah. And I got to switch over. Yeah. But it's good. I mean, that's, you know, what's speed that you to get to. 95 miles an hour? That's really good. Like, you're holding very good speed through here, and you're able to hold the line and get it to where you need it to go. So absolutely cool. Cool. Love it. Yeah. But once again, I would like to say, like, hey, we're at the apex of the corner now, so let's start thinking about rolling to full throttle. You're already rolling 25, 30% throttle. Right. So let's get more in there. Okay, this is me just being a wuss. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, we can agree. But you can trust it. You can trust it. It will be there. Yeah, okay. Just, you know, walls, someone just crashed. I'm like, dude, you know, you're driving the lines. You've got a good idea of it. You're approaching it at 95 miles an hour. That's really good. So this is a good trail. This is actually a pretty good look to a trail, in my opinion. Okay. Let's zoom out. Let' zoom back in. Oh, it's not going to let me do that. Okay, anyway, yeah, this is more what I want to see on a trail. Coming to 11 like, look at your brake trace where it goes up, it hits peak, and then it starts rolling down. I can see where you downshift. Yes, that's That's fine. It happens, especially with boosted systems. Like, the pedal is very sensitive, right? It's not got hard feedback to you, right? So you kind of have to go, oh, okay. Yeah. You know, right? So, anyway, this is a good, that's a good trace. Okay. That's a good taper down. Okay. I wasn't thinking about 11 at all. I just want you to know. I was just going through it, but I wasn't focused on that for today. Yeah. Although I know I'm driving through it like, I got to work on this turn, but I'm going to do it later. Yeah, and that's fine. I mean, knowing also your mental capacity and your ability to tackle things is part of the game, right? It's like, okay, I won't focus on 11 right now. I'll focus on a couple other corners first. You know, but, you know, 11 is like, it's a pretty simple corner when you break it down. I just want you to be closer to the berm. You know, I want you to be closer to the tire tire. Yeah, just the grip. Yeah. I could go later. Yeah, you can break a little earlier to get the car tucked down, if that works. I want you to be closer because distance is king in these kinds of morms.. Right. When you have long sweeping corners like six, like seven, like 11, right? There's a long curve to them. Yeah. So we're not really looking at maximizing that line in, opening up the entry so much to carry, you know, a lot of speed through. Yeah. Because distance is king in most of those things. The more time that you spend offline, the more time you're losing on the clock. And typically, when we do that, when we try to open up a corner and carry larger speed through, the Delta doesn't trade off.. The distance is worth more than the two mile an hour that you gain through the corner. Right? The distance that you cut.. Cut is more makes you faster. Yeah, it makes you faster in a time trial aspect. Right. Because we, I don't care if you're making two mile an hour more in the turn. I'm traveling a shorter distance. Right. Right? You can tell this like when you're on the street and you're in a two-lane left-hand turn. The car that's on the inside is always fucking faster. He's always out. Much less distance, right? If you have to travel that more distance to go around, that means that you're slower. That's helpful because coming into turn seven, I was wondering if I should single Apex it, like, do the trail break like you saw, but then forget the second berm and just like take a very wide arc to accelerate sooner. No, you want to cut the distance. Okay. I mean, I think there's a way you can do both. To where you come in, you cut the distance on the entry, you care about the first apex, and then you rotate that car in the center and then you get on the second apex and treat it like a double. But really it's a single. And a lot of meas do the opposite. Well little troll break real late and they'll use the second b as an apex. Yeah, right. There's other ways that you can tackle it, but the fastest way is cutting all the distance. Okay. Both sides, There's a way that you can achieve full throttle by the middle of the corner in both cases, one that does the shorter distance is faster. Yep.. Car set up notwithstanding. Like, obviously there's cars that can and cannot do it.. Your car can do it, so try to practice it it, right. That's what I should do. Yeah. Good. But yeah, I mean, I think overall, like, I really like how you're hitting your marks. You're getting comfortable with the track. You're rolling with good speed. You're putting the car in the right places. I mean, for the most part, you're hitting pretty much everything that you're supposed to hit in terms of markers and apexes, which is fantastic. Now it's time to start working on rolling the speed in and committing to throttle on the exit, getting that full throttle on the exit. I Let's not work on the rolling and speed in at this point. Let's work on you committing to throttle on the exit. Okay. Right? So what needs to happen if we do that? I need to stop being a wuss. Start stepping on the pedal. Sooner? Yeah, so At the apex, basically. Yeah. Let's delay that throttle action, that early throttle action that we were starting to have to exhibit in some of these corners.. Let's delay that throttle. Anytime that you think you come into the corner is like, oh, it's throttle time. It's like, nope, wait, I'm not at the apex yet. Right? So do a mental check of like, I'm coming into the corner. I want to throw oh, wait, I'm not an apex yet.ce you're at the apex, let's start committing the more to thrall. Okay. And that throttle needs to be significant. We want it to be a lot of throttle. Okay. Right? 100%, you know, because the car in most of these corners, it's not going to bite you. Okay.. It' The car's been very nice to me, I just got to say. It's kind of like, hey, I'm good. You don't have to worry about me. Yeah. It's not going to kill me. That's good. Yeah. That's really good. So if you have that confidence that the car is giving you feedback, that it's not going to kill you or do weird things in strange things to you,, then, yeah, let's start pulling that throttle out of the early phase of the corner and start committing to full throttle by the apex of the corner. Okay. Done. Cool. All right, man. Thank you. You're welcome. Good stuff.
